TLS Best Practices initial improvements (#40053)
dotnet/docs: docs/framework/network-programming/tls.md

---
# Transport Layer Security (TLS) best practices with the .NET Framework

.NET Framework supports the use of the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol to secure network communications.

## What is Transport Layer Security (TLS)?

> [!WARNING]
> TLS 1.0 and 1.1 has been deprecated by [RFC8996](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/). This document will cover TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3.

The Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol is an industry standard designed to help protect the privacy of information communicated over the Internet. [TLS 1.3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8446) is a standard that provides security improvements over previous versions. This article presents recommendations to secure .NET Framework applications that use the TLS protocol.

## Who can benefit from this document?

- Directly using the <xref:System.Net> APIs (for example, <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Net.Security.SslStream?displayProperty=nameWithType>).
- Directly using WCF clients and services using the <xref:System.ServiceModel?displayProperty=nameWithType> namespace.

## TLS support in .NET Framework

> Since the .NET Framework is dependent on `Schannel` on Windows, in most cases the operating system decides which versions can be negotiated and which version will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the .NET Framework is dependent on `Schannel` on Windows, which versions can be negotiated and which version will be used depends on the operating system.
```

"decides" sounds like the OS has the sole decision making power, but apps can set the EnabledProtocols, so I would prefer a different wording.

Here is an updated example table showing the highest supported TLS version for different combinations of operating system versions and .NET Framework target versions:

| .NET Framework Target Version | Windows 10 | Windows 11 |
|-------------------------------|------------|------------|
| 3.5                           | TLS 1.2    | TLS 1.2    |

> | 4.6.2                         | TLS 1.2    | TLS 1.3    |

Reviewer 2: I think this is somewhat confusing IMHO since 4.6 does not support the TLs 13 enum. 
I'm wondering if we should be quiet here and explain later. The "use OS default" is sort of hack IMHO and needs to be combined with the right runtime.

I do like the link to the schannel.

Author: But this is targeting version not the runtime version. So I believe we should be fine in that manner.

| 4.7                           | TLS 1.2    | TLS 1.3    |
| 4.7.1                         | TLS 1.2    | TLS 1.3    |
| 4.7.2                         | TLS 1.2    | TLS 1.3    |
| 4.8                           | TLS 1.2    | TLS 1.3    |
| 4.8.1                         | TLS 1.2    | TLS 1.3    |

> For more information take a look on [TLS protocol version support in Schannel](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secauthn/protocols-in-tls-ssl--schannel-ssp-#tls-protocol-version-support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information see [TLS protocol version support in Schannel](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secauthn/protocols-in-tls-ssl--schannel-ssp-#tls-protocol-version-support).
```

## Recommendations

> - For TLS 1.3, target .NET Framework 4.6.2 or later.

Reviewer 2: I think 4.6 is out of support, right @karelz? While there may be way how to make it work (probably) it probably is not best practice.

Author: 4.6.2 is still supported, see: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/microsoft-net-framework

- Do not specify the TLS version. Configure your code to let the OS decide on the TLS version.

> - Perform a thorough code audit to verify you're not specifying a TLS or SSL version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Perform a thorough code audit to verify you're not specifying a TLS or SSL version explicitly.
```

- Do not use `SslProtocols.Default`.

When your app lets the OS choose the TLS version:

- It automatically takes advantage of new protocols added in the future.
- The OS blocks protocols that are discovered not to be secure.

The section [Audit your code and make code changes](#audit-your-code-and-make-code-changes) covers auditing and updating your code.

This article explains how to enable the strongest security available for the version of .NET Framework that your app targets and runs on. When an app explicitly sets a security protocol and version, it opts out of any other alternative, and opts out of .NET Framework and OS default behavior. If you want your app to be able to negotiate a TLS 1.3 connection, explicitly setting to a lower TLS version prevents a TLS 1.3 connection.

> If you can't avoid hardcoding a protocol version, we strongly recommend that you specify TLS 1.3. For guidance on identifying and removing TLS 1.0 dependencies, download the [Solving the TLS 1.0 Problem](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=55266) white paper.

Reviewer: I wander what the reason for hardcoding the version could be.

Anyway, I think Tls13 enum member is not available when targeting older .NET Framework versions. If it is the case, then we should probably mention that here.

Author: We have it .NET 4.8, so we should mention it but, there is a section about it (`If you must explicitly set a Security Protocol`), which mentions it and shows how to add it as an extension

> If you can't avoid hardcoding a protocol version, we strongly recommend that you specify TLS 1.3. For guidance on identifying and removing TLS 1.0 dependencies, download the [Solving the TLS 1.0 Problem](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=55266) white paper.

Reviewer 2: doing only 13 seems problematic as that can lead to compatibility issues. Especially for legacy apps. Maybe phrase it as "currently considered secure" - `Tls12 | Tls13` as of 2024.

---
# Transport Layer Security (TLS) best practices with the .NET Framework

> [!NOTE]
> This page contains .NET Framework TLS information. If you're looking for .NET TLS information, see: [TLS/SSL Best Practices](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/extensions/sslstream-best-practices)

.NET Framework supports the use of the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol to secure network communications.

## What is Transport Layer Security (TLS)?

> [!WARNING]

> > TLS 1.0 and 1.1 has been deprecated by [RFC8996](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/). This document will cover TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> TLS 1.0 and 1.1 has been deprecated by [RFC8996](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/). This document covers TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3 only.
```

#### For SslStream

<xref:System.Net.Security.SslStream>, using .NET Framework 4.7 and later versions, defaults to the OS choosing the best security protocol and version. To get the default OS best choice, if possible, don't use the method overloads of <xref:System.Net.Security.SslStream> that take an explicit <xref:System.Security.Authentication.SslProtocols> parameter. Otherwise, pass <xref:System.Security.Authentication.SslProtocols.None?displayProperty=nameWithType>. We recommend that you don't use <xref:System.Security.Authentication.SslProtocols.Default>; setting `SslProtocols.Default` forces the use of SSL 3.0 /TLS 1.0 and prevents TLS 1.2.

Don't set a value for the <xref:System.Net.ServicePointManager.SecurityProtocol> property (for HTTP networking).

Don't use the method overloads of <xref:System.Net.Security.SslStream> that take an explicit <xref:System.Security.Authentication.SslProtocols> parameter (for TCP sockets networking). When you retarget your app to .NET Framework 4.7 or later versions, you'll be following the best practices recommendation.

<a name="wcf-tcp-cert"></a>

## For WCF Applications

### If your app targets .NET Framework 4.7 or later versions

> The following sections show how to verify you're not using a specific TLS or SSL version.

Reviewer: I am not sure with this sentence (and same one in the next L3 section), the content does say anything about verifying which version is being used, only how to configure the app.

Use the following sections to verify you're not using a specific TLS or SSL version.

## If you must explicitly set a Security Protocol

If you must explicitly set a security protocol instead of letting .NET or the OS pick the security protocol pick these protocols:

- For .NET Framework 3.5: TLS 1.2
- For .NET Framework 4.6.2 or later: TLS 1.3

> If you can't specified protocols in enum, you can add those as an extension file. See below:

Author: ```suggestion
If you can't find specified protocols in enum, you can add those as an extension file. See below:
```

`SslProtocolExtensions.cs`

```c#
namespace System.Security.Authentication
{
    public static class SslProtocolsExtensions
    {
        // For .NET Framework 3.5
        public const SslProtocols Tls12 = (SslProtocols)3072;
        // For .NET Framework 4.6.2 and later

>         public const SslProtocols Tls13 = (SslProtocols)12288;

Reviewer 2: BTW did you test it? As far as I remember some people had problem even with the casting if running on older versions. It may work for you build (e.g. targeting) but it _may_ have problems when executed on older runtime. But I'm not sure how much we care. That should be rare as of now AFAIK.

Author: I tested it, and it's working fine, however we're generally talking about targeting version here, not the runtime version, so we should be fine.

    }
}
```

`SecurityProtocolExtensions.cs`

```c#
using System.Security.Authentication;

namespace System.Net
{
    public static class SecurityProtocolTypeExtensions
    {
        // For .NET Framework 3.5
        public const SecurityProtocolType Tls12 = (SecurityProtocolType)SslProtocolsExtensions.Tls12;
        // For .NET Framework 4.6.2 and later
        public const SecurityProtocolType Tls13 = (SecurityProtocolType)SslProtocolsExtensions.Tls13;
    }
}
```

For more information, see [Support for TLS System Default Versions included in .NET Framework 3.5 on Windows 8.1 and Windows Server 2012 R2](https://support.microsoft.com/help/3154520/support-for-tls-system-default-versions-included-in-the--net-framework).

## For System.Net APIs (HttpClient, SslStream)

### If your app targets .NET Framework 4.7 or later versions

The following sections show how to verify you're not using a specific TLS or SSL version.

> #### For HttpClient

Reviewer 2: and HttpWebRequest - in .Framework the WebRequest is the main interface and HttpClient sits on top of it.
